# Newton
Explore fractals generated by Newton's method

To learn how Newton's method is used to generate fractals, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newton_fractal. The iterative formula used here is:

<math>z_{n+1} = z_n - a \frac{p(z_n)}{p'(z_n)} </math>

Currently, p is restricted to be a polynomial function.

Instructions for use:
Run the file newton.py to open a display window along with a GUI which allows changing various parameters, recoloring, translating, and zooming in or out. The file cuda_fractal.py contains a parallized implementation of Newton's method which runs on the GPU for fast rendering.

Navigating the display window: 
Click anywhere on the display window to move the center of the display to the point clicked on.

Using the GUI: 
Enter values into the boxes to change the color, number of iterations, polynomial, and zoom factor. Click the buttons to apply changes or perform an action.

Buttons:
Update: updates the display window with the values in the left column. You should click this whenever you change any of these values. 
Zoom in/Zoom out: zooms in or out by the factor specified above. Click Save to save the current display with an automatically generated name. Click Recenter
Save: saves the current display with an automatically generated name containing information about the current settings.
Recenter: resets the center of the fractal to the origin.
Recenter + Unzoom: resets the center of the fractal to the origin and restores the original 

Values:
Red: integer between 0 and 255
Green: integer between 0 and 255
Blue: integer between 0 and 255
Iterations: integer greater than 0, representing the maximum number of iterations of Newton's method to perform at each point.  Lower values result in brighter images with less contrast.
A: complex number of the form x.x+x.xj, representing the value of a from the above formula. Using complex values results in a "twisting" of the fractal (compare A = 1 vs A = .5+.5j, for example).
Polynomial: list of complex numbers separted by commas, representing the polynomial function to perform Newton's method on.
Zoom factor: float greater than 0

Here are some examples of images created by the program:

